Add landing page for the Launch Handler API (#23832)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/launch_handler_api/index.md

---
title: Launch Handler API
slug: Web/API/Launch_Handler_API
page-type: web-api-overview
tags:
  - API
  - Experimental
  - Landing
  - Overview
  - Reference
browser-compat:
  - api.Window.launchQueue
---

{{SeeCompatTable}}{{DefaultAPISidebar("Launch Handler API")}}

> The **Launch Handler API** allows developers to control how a [progressive web app](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) (PWA) is launched — for example if it uses an existing window or creates a new one, and how the app's target launch URL is handled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Launch Handler API** allows developers to control how a [progressive web app](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) (PWA) is launched—for example if it uses an existing window or creates a new one, and how the app's target launch URL is handled.
```

Reviewer: I don't know if MDN uses the Chicago Manual of Style, but this is how that book consistently treats m-dashes, even though it doesn't have a rule for them that I can find.

Author: I appreciate that's the typographically "correct" way to use em-dashes, but I've always added spaces at either side because I think it looks better on small copy on the web. I don't think we've ever really had an MDN standard style for this.

## Concepts and usage

You can specify launch behavior for your app by adding the [`launch_handler`](/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/launch_handler) field to your web app manifest file. This has one sub-field, `client_mode`, which contains a string value specifying how the app should be launched and navigated to. For example:

```json
"launch_handler": {
    "client_mode": "focus-existing"
}
```

> If not specified, the default `client_mode` value is auto. Available values are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If not specified, the default `client_mode` value is `auto`. Available values are:
```

- `navigate-new`
  - : A new browsing context is created in a web app window to load the target launch URL.
- `navigate-existing`
  - : The most recently interacted with browsing context in a web app window is navigated to the target launch URL.
- `focus-existing`

>   - : The most recently interacted with browsing context in a web app window is chosen to handle the launch. Specify the target launch URL in the {{domxref("LaunchParams.targetURL", "targetURL")}} property of the {{domxref("LaunchParams")}} object passed into the {{domxref("LaunchQueue.setConsumer", "window.launchQueue.setConsumer()")}}'s callback function. As you'll see below, this allows you to set custom launch handing functionality for your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : The most recently interacted with browsing context in a web app window is chosen to handle the launch. This will populate the target launch URL in the {{domxref("LaunchParams.targetURL", "targetURL")}} property of the {{domxref("LaunchParams")}} object passed into the {{domxref("LaunchQueue.setConsumer", "window.launchQueue.setConsumer()")}}'s callback function. As you'll see below, this allows you to set custom launch handing functionality for your app.
```

This happens automatically, it's not the developer who needs to fill this info.

>   - : The most recently interacted with browsing context in a web app window is chosen to handle the launch. The target launch URL is made available in the {{domxref("LaunchParams.targetURL", "targetURL")}} property of the {{domxref("LaunchParams")}} object passed into the {{domxref("LaunchQueue.setConsumer", "window.launchQueue.setConsumer()")}}'s callback function. As you'll see below, this allows you to set custom launch handing functionality for your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The most recently interacted with browsing context in a web app window is chosen to handle the launch. Specify the target launch URL in the {{domxref("LaunchParams.targetURL", "targetURL")}} property of the {{domxref("LaunchParams")}} object passed into the {{domxref("LaunchQueue.setConsumer", "window.launchQueue.setConsumer()")}}'s callback function. As you'll see below, this allows you to set custom launch handing functionality for your app.
```

- `auto`

>   - : The behavior is up to the user agent to decide what works best for the platform. For example, <code>navigate-existing</code> might make more sense on mobile, where single app instances are commonplace, whereas <code>navigate-new</code> might make more sense in a desktop context. This is the default value used if provided values are invalid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : The user agent decides what works best for the platform. For example, <code>navigate-existing</code> might make more sense on mobile, where single app instances are commonplace, whereas <code>navigate-new</code> might make more sense in a desktop context. This is the default value used if provided values are invalid.
```

> When `focus-existing` is used as a value, you can include code inside the {{domxref("LaunchQueue.setConsumer", "window.launchQueue.setConsumer()")}}'s callback function to provide custom handling of the {{domxref("LaunchParams.targetURL", "targetURL")}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `focus-existing` is used, you can include code inside the {{domxref("LaunchQueue.setConsumer", "window.launchQueue.setConsumer()")}}'s callback function to provide custom handling of the {{domxref("LaunchParams.targetURL", "targetURL")}}
```
